The many recent successes in scaling reinforcement learning (RL) to complex sequential decision-making problems
were kick-started by the Deep Q-Networks algorithm (DQN;
Mnih et al. 2013, 2015). Its combination of Q-learning with
convolutional neural networks and experience replay enabled it to learn, from raw pixels, how to play many Atari
games at human-level performance. Since then, many extensions have been proposed that enhance its speed or stability.
Double DQN (DDQN; van Hasselt, Guez, and Silver
2016) addresses an overestimation bias of Q-learning (van
Hasselt 2010), by decoupling selection and evaluation of
the bootstrap action. Prioritized experience replay (Schaul
et al. 2015) improves data efficiency, by replaying more often transitions from which there is more to learn. The dueling network architecture (Wang et al. 2016) helps to generalize across actions by separately representing state values and action advantages. Learning from multi-step bootstrap targets (Sutton 1988; Sutton and Barto 1998), as used
in A3C (Mnih et al. 2016), shifts the bias-variance tradeoff and helps to propagate newly observed rewards faster to
earlier visited states. Distributional Q-learning (Bellemare,
Dabney, and Munos 2017) learns a categorical distribution
of discounted returns, instead of estimating the mean. Noisy
DQN (Fortunato et al. 2017) uses stochastic network layers
for exploration. This list is, of course, far from exhaustive.
Each of these algorithms enables substantial performance
improvements in isolation. Since they address radically different issues, and since they build on a shared framework,
Copyright c 2018, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.
Figure 1: Median human-normalized performance across 57
Atari games. We compare Rainbow (rainbow-colored) to
DQN and six published baselines. We match DQN’s best
performance after 7M frames, surpass any baseline in 44M
frames, reaching substantially improved final performance.
Curves are smoothed with a moving average of 5 points.
they could plausibly be combined. In some cases this has
been done: Prioritized DDQN and Dueling DDQN both use
double Q-learning, and Dueling DDQN was also combined
with prioritized replay. In this paper we propose to study an
agent that combines all the aforementioned ingredients. We
show how these different ideas can be integrated, and that
they are indeed complementary. In fact, their combination
results in new state-of-the-art results on the benchmark suite
of 57 Atari 2600 games from the Arcade Learning Environment (Bellemare et al. 2013), both in terms of data efficiency
and of final performance. Finally, we show results from ablation studies to help understand the contributions of the individual component
